harmony is a special autism service dog
and primarily she provides him with
support and safety she makes sure that
he stays with us and that they are kind
of attached at the hip if you will you
know there are moments in that video
where I do tier up a little bit where
you feel a great upsurge of empathy for
that individual and a great surge of
respect for the relationship between
that animal and that person but I'm also
not a person who's completely blinded by
that who is going to take that emotional
response and not be able to see past it
not be able to see any other side to
anything else and I do believe the
subject to service dogs has another side
has a side that is a little bit dark and
only the dogs who accept the harness and
accept the training those dogs are used
and the dog has to take the step when
you tell them to take a step not when
you move different than if it was a
human helping them then they feel like
they're a burden but with the dog they
feel like it's a team I've never seen a
dog this as happy as her and she's on a
harness and yeah I really just don't
believe it's neglect I believe that
we're a team my parents are for example
who is always super excited when my dog
hope that gets out like the thing for
around his neck to go walking or if you
know take him across the street so it
doesn't get harmless if I get dog it's
like it's different any human dog needs
me to stay alive I need the dog to stay
alive the dog needs me to stay alive I
need the dog to stay alive dog needs me
to stay alive
discussions about what a dog feels what
a dog thinks what makes the dog happy
are very ambiguous to me what I am
interested in is looking at my own
experiences related to some of these
topics and reflecting on them and
honestly expressing how I feel I think
that's the best I can do take care to
leave it I do acknowledge that there's
some gray area on this subject I'm
coming at this from someone who can see
why you would feel empathy can
understand it to his experienced
feelings of empathy for the work of
service dogs and what they provide
people but I also see on some other
level the reality that in this business
animals are selected animals are broken
that animals are feeded through and sort
it out for the ones that will be a most
amenable to the requirements of the job
and the requirements on the of the job
on a lot of levels are not to be a dog
and so many times we will go out with
practicing with our own service drugs
and training and see some of these dogs
that are just totally inappropriate in
terms of their behavior they might bark
in a store they may pull in lunge on the
leash worse they might come to attack a
legitimate service dog and service dogs
are taught not to fight we don't want
dogs that are aggressive so if they're
attacked by another dog they are going
to be passive the instincts that a
normal dog has that a normal animal has
to want to defend itself defend its
territory to interact communicate with
other individuals of its own species
desire to do things such as mate to some
degree play just some very large degree
to be a dog to be an animal are things
that are weeded out things that are
trained out and I wonder if this kind of
training on some level take something
away from them but then the dog comes in
a new home
I start to see the new people as their
pack began is someone that I've
interacted very briefly and limitedly on
this topic um in comment sections but it
seems clear to me and I feel a relative
competence saying that she she very
strongly believes that dogs can have
very strong connections to humans that
they can see humans as a pack and that
there's scientific evidence to back this
up maybe so but is there something
subtly sinister suddenly subtly creepy
about these relationships that we have
with these animals other reasons why I
prefer to use the term political science
rather than political philosophy is that
I do really care about the
practicalities of all these questions
you can sit down and have a debate in an
academic context or in a coffee shop run
the table with some friends asking what
really was the correct thing for the
President of the United States to do
after September 11 2001 you can do it in
a totally fantasy unrealistic
hypothetical manner but probably even
within a casual conversation inevitably
your attention will turn toward
practical details the best-case scenario
simply is not worth imagining without
delving into the worst-case scenario and
all the strange practical obstacles that
would make the best case scenario
unattainable I think that a group of
intelligent people having that
conversation very soon would veer away
from merely reproaching the president
estates for not doing what was ideal and
would very soon become interested in all
the things that make those ideals
unattainable um and my channel is one of
the few that really wants to get away
from merely talking about ideals when we
talk about veganism although the ideals
are of course still worth preaching I
just assumed the type of people who
watch this channel the
want to be breached you anymore and I
think those are the the viewers I keep
you know plenty of other channels that
are gonna preach the same thing to you
again and again you know if you already
are vegan you've heard it before if
you're not vegan you probably heard it
before I don't want here to get better
so we gotta tiptoe around these issues
sometimes and be very clear when are we
talking brass tacks when are we talking
about practical issues and what are we
talking about real ideals now this video
I'm sharing with you today obviously
exists in part to promote the YouTube
channel this guy j costly i'm going to
give you a link you know i'm interested
in promoting other vegan channels that
are not selling you a diet book that are
not selling you a dream they're talking
about something real with in veganism
whether those are political problems
practical problems or otherwise this guy
j costly part of his steez is that he's
a former zoo employee with a vegan
perspective and the reality of what goes
on inside of zoos he has an incredibly
grim video talking about killing animals
inside the zoo killing animals that are
fed as meat to the denizens of the zoo i
I've never heard any other vegan talk
about that aside from myself but you've
heard in recent videos where I was
saying look every day you keep a tiger
alive inside a zoo captive breeding
program or a you know a program that's
trying to restore them to to living in
the welder habitat no matter how
well-intentioned the program is where
you're keeping tigers in captivity every
single day that Tiger is there you're
killing cows chickens lambs you're
killing other animals in order to keep
that tiger alive in captivity so there
are some interesting questions of
speciesism in practice but of all the
videos I chose to feature from Jay's
channel just now this one where I've cut
it off here he's raising this question
of the relationships between humans and
dogs being creepy and you know I think
that actually is a substantive question
and I think it's a reason for all of us
as vegans to look in the mirror because
the truth is that we
we do go around reproaching meat-eaters
with the thought that what happens on a
dairy farm is creepy now philosophically
or politically what's at the root of
that claim what does it mean when I tell
you that something that is one hundred
percent standard procedure on hundreds
of thousands of farms involving millions
of cows is creepy or unnatural or
strange people within the dairy industry
often just respond with disabilities
what do you mean this is totally normal
this is normal in the business that's
normal in the industry but we as vegans
are stepping forward and trying to make
this argument that no business as usual
is not normal is not acceptable and in
fact it's creepy it's disturbing you
know where do baby cows come from how
actually are cows on a dairy farm
impregnated what actually happens to the
calves after they're born that process
you know and even the act of drinking
milk itself the basic concept that a
human being as a biped would be drinking
the milk out of a quadrupeds boob we're
out there making this argument that's
creepy and a court I'm I'm vegan I mean
those arguments speak to me I think
they're still meaningful worthwhile even
if creepiness is not really the most
philosophically compelling concept or
it's not the most politically discrete
concepts or what have you I do i do
think that argument has merit and I've
made it myself when talking to people
face-to-face but of course on the other
hand the strong suit the meat eaters
have to say back is what no this isn't
creepy it's normal millions and millions
of people do it and it's a bit bizarre
and hilarious to me that you know the
responses from vegans justifying pet
ownership come down to these same stupid
stupid arguments there they're just as
dumb and self-righteous as meat eaters
justifying what's normal you know my
fellow vegans justifying owning of dogs
castrating dogs etc now i received an
especially disturbing message that I've
decided not to read out to you from a
vegan dog owner
who chose to explain to me and and this
was not trolling this is someone who's
been a fan of my channel i think for at
least a year someone who's written me
fan mail over a long period of time and
this person you know they're a fan but
they also disagree with me on issues
this person wrote in boasting boasting
that her own pet dogs although they had
been castrated still had a normal sexual
response and still had orgasms creepy
already this is creepy and she as the
human owner of these dogs knows this
because she provides her dogs on a daily
basis with inflatable airline neck
pillows that her dogs used to simulate
coitus to the point of ejaculation she
was not writing this to me uh in
agreement with me or saying well I admit
this is a bit creepier to stir but no no
no no she was writing this to me with
all the self-righteousness of an
employee the meat and dairy industry
saying that no no the way veal crates
work is completely normal the way rape
racks work is completely normal and by
the way the term rape Rack is an
industry term it's not a term vegans
made up if you look at catalogs of farm
equipment you can find illustrations
with the term rape rack used to describe
the metal racks used for cows okay she
was writing to me with the
self-righteousness of a narrow-minded
person confidently telling you what's
normal and from her perspective what's
normal is it as a human being not only
does she stoop onto the ground and with
her hands pick up the feces of a dog on
a daily basis the poo of a dog but
apparently I guess she gets out some
kind of towel and literally wipes up the
jizz that her pet dogs ejaculate okay I
think it does matter I think the
question of creepiness does matter I
think the question of whether or not
you're
willing to examine psychologically what
it means to own a companion animal I
think it does matter I think there are
dimensions to this that really go beyond
even the type of demented cruelty that's
involved with human slavery and human
slavery historically did involve
castration in a tiny minority of cases
but I me in the vascular cases you have
to recognize the reason why slavery was
so stable as a social institution was
that some slaves had a good quality of
life some slaves were happy the same way
people can boast that some dogs are
happy I've never even disputed that
factum that's meaningless as with the
justifications for slavery I want to ask
the fundamental questions of principle
about whether this is right or wrong and
then looking ahead i also want to ask
the practical and pragmatic questions of
how can we have a future where humans
and animals live on the same planet and
you guys have heard me give my answer to
that one of my very first videos on this
topic i pointed out look you know when
you watch Star Wars or Star Trek or some
science-fiction universe you know are
there dogs on the Starship Enterprise is
our vision of the future one in which
the you know enslavement debasement the
domestication of animals for food for
companionship entertainment is that a
perpetual part of our culture for the
next 500 years next 1,000 years or do we
as vegans see ourselves in a period of
transition we're just like we want
traditional we want to transition away
from being a society that smoke
cigarettes we also want to be in a
transition that eventually brings about
the end of the domestication of animals
for me that's not a difficult question
answer for me it is not difficult to say
in the future I don't think dog should
be pet it should be groomed or bread or
castrated to be companions to human
beings that's I don't know
why that would be difficult for any
vegan to give that answer but I did have
one um one question come in here on
YouTube from a longtime fan called
twisted hippie he's a fan but again he
doesn't mind disagree with me he doesn't
mind you know criticizing me when he
when he disagrees me which is great
certainly welcome and several people
commented that they found my answer to
his question enlightening that will
forever reason they didn't really
understand my point to the domestication
of animals until they read this um so
I'm gonna read it out now I I don't know
why that is but many people said this
clarified management I agree but on a
practical level what do we do with the
rescue animals already existing no
animals should be forced to live in a
human home when it doesn't come close to
its natural environment however if the
alternative is euthanasia ? right so
here's my reply to this guy I believe I
have discussed this at sufficient length
both on youtube and within patreon vis I
agree but on a practical level what do
we do with the rescue animals already
existing the reality is that vegans
don't have an answer for the question of
what will we do with all the cows if the
slaughterhouse owners suddenly became
vegan and refuse to kill them we
probably have no good answer as to what
to do with farm animals if millions and
millions of them suddenly could not be
killed and could not be introduced to
the wild etc and so pause obviously if
even a single large farm owner suddenly
declared that he wanted to do the right
thing you want to save the lives of all
of his cows several thousand cows those
cows can't live in the forest what
actually would you do as a vegan you
personally if you suddenly had several
thousand cows in your hands
however we can recognize that this is
really a spurious and unreasonable
argument when meat-eaters raise it so if
meteors say this to you as a reproach
how can you possibly be vegan given that
you have no solution for what to do with
these animals today if all the
slaughterhouse is closed today if all
the meat producing factory farms closed
today we can recognize that it's
spurious and unreasonable why is it that
we have so much difficulty in
recognizing a precisely parallel problem
in the domestication of animals as pets
the end of the cycle of domestication
like the end of the cycle of
industrialized slaughter has to start
somewhere and it has to start with
someone I'm asking you sincerely to
consider that it starts with us vegans
but most of us are in a state of extreme
denialism and can't even admit that this
is a problem yet I've raised for you
guys a whole series of problems we're
all I've been trying to do is to get you
to admit that they're problematic
castration is problematic killing cows
to feed dogs is problematic killing
lambs the feed cats is problematic and
yes even these psychological dimensions
of how people live with dogs after those
dogs have been castrated train had their
will broken had their sex lives taken
away from had any chance of an
independent life of dignity taken away
from them when these dogs have lived
their whole lives without ever knowing
what it's like to be in a pack what it's
ever like never knowing what it's like
to be in a forest I have just been
saying that this is problematic and the
very real hatred and obligee directed
towards me but the vast majority of
vegans has been manifest and
demonstrated all but this is the
question I have to ask for you if we as
vegans can't just admit that this is a
problem and think critically about what
direction we're going in the future
who can